README.md, before:

<div align=center>

# typeshed-stats

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AlexWaygood/typeshed-stats/main/stats_website/big_logo.png" width="500" alt="A Python in a field of wheat with a shed behind it, golden-red sunset in the background">

<br>

---

## A CLI tool and library to gather stats on [typeshed](https://github.com/python/typeshed)

<br>

[![website](https://img.shields.io/website?down_color=red&down_message=Offline&style=for-the-badge&up_color=green&up_message=Running&url=https%3A%2F%2Falexwaygood.github.io%2Ftypeshed-stats%2F)](https://alexwaygood.github.io/typeshed-stats/)[![build status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/AlexWaygood/typeshed-stats/test.yml?branch=main&label=Tests&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/AlexWaygood/typeshed-stats/actions/workflows/test.yml)
<br>
[![Checked with mypy](https://img.shields.io/badge/mypy-checked-blue?style=for-the-badge)](http://mypy-lang.org/)[![Code style: Ruff](https://img.shields.io/badge/Code_style-Ruff-D7FF64?style=for-the-badge&logo=ruff)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge)](https://pre-commit.ci)
<br>
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/typeshed-stats?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypi.org/project/typeshed-stats/)![PyPI - Wheel](https://img.shields.io/pypi/wheel/typeshed-stats?style=for-the-badge)[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/AlexWaygood/typeshed-stats?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

---

<br>
</div>

## What's this project for?

This project is for easy gathering of statistics relating to [typeshed](https://github.com/python/typeshed)'s stubs. As well as being a CLI tool and library, it also powers [a website](https://alexwaygood.github.io/typeshed-stats/) where stats about typeshed's stubs are uploaded twice a day.

This project was created by Alex Waygood. It is not necessarily endorsed by any of the other typeshed maintainers.

Some examples of things you can do from the command line:

- Create a `.csv` file with stats on all typeshed stubs: `typeshed-stats --typeshed-dir <PATH_TO_TYPESHED_CLONE> --to-file stats.csv` (the `.csv` file extension will be automatically detected by the script to identify the format required).
- Pretty-print stats on typeshed stubs for emoji and redis to the terminal, in JSON format: `typeshed-stats --typeshed-dir <PATH_TO_TYPESHED_CLONE> --to-json emoji redis`
- Generate a MarkDown file detailing stats on typeshed's stubs for protobuf and the stdlib: `typeshed-stats --typeshed-dir <PATH_TO_TYPESHED_CLONE> --to-file stats.md stdlib protobuf`
- Open the upstream repository URLs for `requests`, `Flask-SocketIO` and `CPython` in your default web browser: `typeshed-stats --typeshed-dir <PATH_TO_TYPESHED_CLONE> --upstream-repo requests Flask-SocketIO stdlib`

Example usage of the Python-level API:

```python
from typeshed_stats.gather import tmpdir_typeshed, gather_stats

with tmpdir_typeshed() as typeshed:
    stats_on_all_packages = gather_stats_on_multiple_packages(typeshed_dir=typeshed)
```

## How can I use this?

1. Run `pip install typeshed-stats[rich]` to install the package
1. Run `typeshed-stats --help` for information about various options

## Are there any examples of things this script can produce, other than [the website](https://alexwaygood.github.io/typeshed-stats/)?

I'm glad you asked! They're in the `examples/` folder in this repo.
(These examples are generated using the `regenerate.py` script in the `scripts/` directory.)

## How do I run tests/linters?

1. Clone the repo and `cd` into it
1. Create and activate a virtual environment
1. Run `pip install -e .[dev]`
1. Either run the linters/tests individually (see the `.github/workflows` directory for details about what's run in CI) or use the `scripts/runtests.py` convenience script to run them all in succession.

Commit message:

Get rid of the `rich` extra

README.md, after:

<div align=center>

# typeshed-stats

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AlexWaygood/typeshed-stats/main/stats_website/big_logo.png" width="500" alt="A Python in a field of wheat with a shed behind it, golden-red sunset in the background">

<br>

---

## A CLI tool and library to gather stats on [typeshed](https://github.com/python/typeshed)

<br>

[![website](https://img.shields.io/website?down_color=red&down_message=Offline&style=for-the-badge&up_color=green&up_message=Running&url=https%3A%2F%2Falexwaygood.github.io%2Ftypeshed-stats%2F)](https://alexwaygood.github.io/typeshed-stats/)[![build status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/AlexWaygood/typeshed-stats/test.yml?branch=main&label=Tests&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/AlexWaygood/typeshed-stats/actions/workflows/test.yml)
<br>
[![Checked with mypy](https://img.shields.io/badge/mypy-checked-blue?style=for-the-badge)](http://mypy-lang.org/)[![Code style: Ruff](https://img.shields.io/badge/Code_style-Ruff-D7FF64?style=for-the-badge&logo=ruff)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white&style=for-the-badge)](https://pre-commit.ci)
<br>
[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/typeshed-stats?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypi.org/project/typeshed-stats/)![PyPI - Wheel](https://img.shields.io/pypi/wheel/typeshed-stats?style=for-the-badge)[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/AlexWaygood/typeshed-stats?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

---

<br>
</div>

## What's this project for?

This project is for easy gathering of statistics relating to [typeshed](https://github.com/python/typeshed)'s stubs. As well as being a CLI tool and library, it also powers [a website](https://alexwaygood.github.io/typeshed-stats/) where stats about typeshed's stubs are uploaded twice a day.

This project was created by Alex Waygood. It is not necessarily endorsed by any of the other typeshed maintainers.

Some examples of things you can do from the command line:

- Create a `.csv` file with stats on all typeshed stubs: `typeshed-stats --typeshed-dir <PATH_TO_TYPESHED_CLONE> --to-file stats.csv` (the `.csv` file extension will be automatically detected by the script to identify the format required).
- Pretty-print stats on typeshed stubs for emoji and redis to the terminal, in JSON format: `typeshed-stats --typeshed-dir <PATH_TO_TYPESHED_CLONE> --to-json emoji redis`
- Generate a MarkDown file detailing stats on typeshed's stubs for protobuf and the stdlib: `typeshed-stats --typeshed-dir <PATH_TO_TYPESHED_CLONE> --to-file stats.md stdlib protobuf`
- Open the upstream repository URLs for `requests`, `Flask-SocketIO` and `CPython` in your default web browser: `typeshed-stats --typeshed-dir <PATH_TO_TYPESHED_CLONE> --upstream-repo requests Flask-SocketIO stdlib`

Example usage of the Python-level API:

```python
from typeshed_stats.gather import tmpdir_typeshed, gather_stats

with tmpdir_typeshed() as typeshed:
    stats_on_all_packages = gather_stats_on_multiple_packages(typeshed_dir=typeshed)
```

## How can I use this?

1. Run `pip install typeshed-stats` to install the package
1. Run `typeshed-stats --help` for information about various options

Alternatively, if you have [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) installed,
`uvx typeshed-stats` can be used to invoke the tool without any previous installation step.

## Are there any examples of things this script can produce, other than [the website](https://alexwaygood.github.io/typeshed-stats/)?

I'm glad you asked! They're in the `examples/` folder in this repo.
(These examples are generated using the `regenerate.py` script in the `scripts/` directory.)

## How do I run tests/linters?

1. Clone the repo and `cd` into it
1. Create and activate a virtual environment
1. Run `pip install -e .[dev]`
1. Either run the linters/tests individually (see the `.github/workflows` directory for details about what's run in CI) or use the `scripts/runtests.py` convenience script to run them all in succession.
